---
layout: "../../../layouts/Post.astro"
title: Bitch Slap - Pony, Melbourne
date: 1190061210
---
There are a lot of young bands like Karate Party, some nice songs, with a few interesting riffs and melodies lurking within them, but the two piece line up of keyboards and drums lacks the drive needed to get them across. Jo and Cat's intersong banter is also irritatingly fey, causing a few cringes, however as the set nears it's conclusion the girls seem to be getting it together and the songs are having more impact, perhaps a few more live shows and rehearsals are needed?Bitchslap and their fuzzy Grunge Punk on the other hand are as tight as Jon Bon Jovi's trousers. Wonderfully thick guitar tones, bass lines and drum beats coming through crisp and crystal clear. Jess Coram, resplendent in regulation black with a severe haircut that looks just so right for the night, delivers sullen lyrics with aggression and panache. She barely acknowledges the audience between songs but still possesses and emits a certain confidence and charm whilst spitting lyrics about misery and oppression. Equally competent on guitar she rips out simple but blistering lead lines as well as chunky rhythm, treating her guitar like an old friend that you're not quite sure if she still likes. Liz on bass constantly conjures the perfect accompaniment, expertly interplaying with the guitar; the arrangements of songs seemingly planned for maximum effectiveness, unyet making it all look so easy.Scott at the back on drums may look a little out of place (with the additional role tonight of being the sole male on the entire line up, a role he may be quite used to) but he doesn't show it, providing a similarly solid backing to the girls up front.The material and it's content is far from cheery and some might say it's even a little melodramatic at times, but it's heartfelt, the motivations and passions behind it are real and genuine. You may not sympathise, comprehend or understand the band or their aggravations, but if you're in the same room as Bitchslap, you will most certainly notice and hear them.


Published in InPress
