---
title: "Decentralized entertainment with Breaker.io"
layout: podcast
created_at: 2020-04-23 13:00:00 UTC
author: ""
categories: podcast theweeklysqueak
podcast: "The Weekly Squeak"
tags: 
orig_url: https://anchor.fm/theweeklysqueak/episodes/Decentralized-entertainment-with-Breaker-io-ed57pv
podcast_embed: https://anchor.fm/s/2ab8734/podcast/play/12803327/https%3A%2F%2Fd3ctxlq1ktw2nl.cloudfront.net%2Fproduction%2F2020-3-23%2F66905454-44100-2-268936e0c440d.mp3
image: 347957-1587631346483-75f2fb3f52f27.jpg
permalink: /:categories/:title/
transcript: true
---
In this episode I speak with Troy Murray of breaker.io, a decentralized ecosystem that empowers creators and delivers fans classic and original content. Also features news items on technology in a time of crisis, self-editing, the bans before musicians were famous, and much more!

- [chrischinchilla.com](https://chrischinchilla.com)
- [breaker.io](https://breaker.io)

## Transcript 

**Chris Ward**: [00:00:00] Welcome to the weekly squeak. Your weekly geeky squeak with me, Christian jello. How is everybody. I guess we're probably all feeling somewhat the same. I'm tired today. Uh, in fact, uh, I have one of my first articles is maybe related to this, but, uh, I'm kind of weary. Uh, they'll get in a bit the same, isn't it?
[00:00:27] Um, I did promise I was going to try and make this show a, um, a, uh, let me know what word to use anymore. A Cobbett 19 free zone. It's getting harder and harder. Don't much else to talk about. Sometimes. Um, I've got a few, uh, bits of content around the topic. I'll try to use them to discuss other factors and not get too bogged down.
[00:00:49] But, um, it's getting hard, I must admit. I have an interview this week with Troy and Marie of breaker. Um, there's a little bit of a followup to an interview I did a couple of years ago, um, from South by Southwest with, uh, Zack of singularity DTV, which was a, um, decentralized, uh, et cetera. Um. Kind of platform for video producers, I guess like a decentralized YouTube plus YouTube studio kind of thing.
[00:01:23] And a breaker is a follow on from that. It's kind of the, um, all the, um, the delivery of the content in some ways. Um. Actually, it looks reasonably polished. I hope to try a hands on with it soon. There are beta versions of applications for a variety of platforms, and you can pay for, uh, the content you consume in a variety of different ways.
[00:01:48] Um, anyway, we'll dig into more detail on that with the interview. So stay on the show for that. Let's begin with some links.
[00:02:00] Okay. Let's get all the covered content out of the way. First. First up, and I kind of referenced this in the introduction, this is an article from wired. I see. Do you have groupings of various sites? Um, this week? I don't know, which is where I've been reading, I suppose. Well, what's attracted my attention, this is from Ellen and Morgan and yeah, the title kind of says it all.
[00:02:23] Coronavirus is totally screwing up our sleep and here's how to fix it there. I was glad to hear. I wasn't the only person who seems to be, uh, tired recently. Um, it's actually a little bit better the past couple of days for various reasons. We have been very lucky here in Berlin and it's been sunny most of the time, which helps your energy.
[00:02:41] It also means you wake up earlier, but that's not necessarily a, a, a problem per se. Um. Just, yeah. Waking up too early all the time. Be a little weary. Uh, there's, I suppose, uh, there's various reasons for this and this is what the article goes into. There are some reasons that due to the shift in seasons, of course, but also there are things like, um.
[00:03:04] This constant, kind of a subliminal worrying about things. Um, the lack of change, the lack of, uh, structure inside of your schedules is one, the, uh, lack of separation in your kind of home environment. Um, and there's been plenty of articles for some time on trying to make your bedroom a place of, um, we laxation but if that's the only place you can also work in, then you kind of spending all your time in this one room.
[00:03:32] It's hard to separate out your, your life and think of it as a relaxing place again. So lots of little things like that now pertaining to the how to solve it. There's not necessarily any new advice here. There are things like, yes, trying to stick to a schedule, do not be tempted to nap and sleep and sit around all day as possible.
[00:03:53] It's impossible for everybody right now. Um, so try to maintain as much structure and normal rhythms as possible. Also watching what you eat. Again, I'm pretty easy to lax into. Sorry to lapse into bad eating habits. I actually heard that apparently in New York city and the past couple of weeks, the sales of junk food went rush.
[00:04:18] You know, it's comfort eating, but it's generally food that makes you not sleep very well. And this is strange because yesterday I had a slightly, uh, a bad eating day. I had burger for lunch. Junk food  and it is live for a while, so maybe they're related. So who knows how to say. I think it's kind of more longterm maybe than a one off day, but they sort of know what I mean.
[00:04:39] Your body sometimes feeds back to you with things that you didn't necessarily like. And I suppose one of the biggest ones that I think that I had actually found a useful of just reading articles like this and speaking to friends and knowing that you're not alone, you're not alone in feeling worried and alone in having a problem right now.
[00:04:56] Um, I don't need to, that's a very concrete resolution, but I suppose it make you feel better about it and not feel so bad about it. And hopefully that reduces that sort of low level stress and you do sleep better in the long run. Um, we'll say we shall see, I suppose. Next one, somewhat related. Again, I do apologize.
[00:05:15] We will, we'll change subjects in a, this is from D net from Daphne Lupron. Regio. I'm not entirely sure how to pronounce that name. I'm going for the French pronunciation. You can't stop how data centers are coping with this crisis. It's actually specifically focusing on our UK data centers, which is nice.
[00:05:33] Um, and of course in this increased demand for online services, um. There are certain services that have to keep running to facilitate that. And whilst data centers are not necessarily high employees zones, um, there are certain people that are, have to go there to fix things, to install things, do check things.
[00:05:52] Um, they tend to be quite large as I'm guessing social distancing is easy, ish. Sometimes you might have jobs that require more than one person. I think one of the bigger challenges they mentioned here was the installation. Uh, the creation and installation of a data center involves lots of people from who knows where, um, to come and build them.
[00:06:11] And we probably need to more than ever right now. Um, and how do you handle that? And. I suppose one of the lucky things, comparing, say a data center to a hatchery or a R a grocery wholesaler is tend to be fairly well paid, highest highly skilled workers. So they tend to be looked after better, which I'm casting no kind of judgment on the, the.
[00:06:36] That statement. Um, just a, an unfortunate fact. Um, and, uh, we could probably say that people working in the food industry, um, and maybe logistics, depending what they are, logistics they are transporting, um, are possibly more valuable. But, uh, yeah, that's a kind of bigger, bigger discussion than I necessarily have the expertise or time to go into right now.
[00:07:00] But, um. Yeah. So they tend to be better looked after and they have better conditions, I suppose. Is the argument there? Um, and then, yeah, if there are power issues you have to call an external parties, things like that. How do you keep these things going and people really need them the most? Uh, I think this.
[00:07:18] This links quite nicely to the a link I mentioned last week on the way that, uh, service, um, service, the word service requirements, those and service bus service delivery have changed over the past couple of months. So now, um, it doesn't actually affect, uh. Data centers too much maybe, but how that, the demand for internet is now less about, uh, a handful of big consumers, but lots and lots of small consumers and handling that kind of very spiky demand has meant that they've had to probably change a set up to say there are people, they're attempting to do that for you.
[00:08:02] And they also mention, of course, uh, one of the other bigger problems right now of, uh, logistics, supply and demand for parts. Northern Italy, for example, is a big manufacturer of ups is a uninterruptible power supplies. And, uh, that's hard to get those right now. Uh, parts of Asia. Of course, we're in lockdown for some time.
[00:08:19] Those parts of backload, so things they might need to keep these services running. It also hard to get hold of. So there's kind of lots of little factors there to think about and keeping these running. These sort of, I think data centers are an interesting base because we are using them all the time, but we never seek them really.
[00:08:38] And finally, in this topic, this is one of the most fascinating stories from the past few weeks and has been the cause of many memes as well. This is also from wired. James Temperton and this is covering the, uh, strange, um, correlation some have been making between the virus and 5g. Ah, this was not covered in the conference that I was at in November, that's for sure.
[00:09:02] Although, strangely, the source of this correlation is older than you might think. It actually goes back. To January, uh, from Belgium. Quite strangely,
[00:09:18] an interview with a, with a doctor, not necessarily even a specialist doctor talking about the crisis long before Europe had even paid attention to it. Noticing the, um, the fact that, or mentioning honestly noticing, well, he was no sin, but mentioning the fact that Wu Han, where it started in quote marks, um, was a, a large manufacturer of 5g, um, equipment.
[00:09:44] I mean, it's sort of strange correlation to draw. Um, and I guess if you really wanted to say that the devices were infected. Doubts that many have were installed since January. I'm not sure. It's hard to say. Um, and of course they sit in storage and shipped around a lot. I dunno. You could start to see why some might draw that correlation.
[00:10:08] That's an interesting one. And then strangely, this one small interview with a, a small outlet and a small country that has since been deleted, sparked this kind of bizarre, um, outbreak. If you forgive the, the word of, um, of feeling that this was true, uh, involving people vandalizing, um, infrastructure. And of course.
[00:10:36] You would probably immediately start thinking, how does he want even know what it looks like? Uh, and yes, um, people have been attacking non 5g infrastructure. I heard an anecdote from a service engineer who actually said they are getting abuse from some people in some countries. There's certain countries that are doing this more than others.
[00:10:53] Um, around the fact that they're servicing infrastructure, which positive and 5g they have actually also been attacking to G 3g, um, equipment. So, yeah, I mean, it's not like this equipment has a kind of recognizable, um, factor to most people to even know what. They're even vandalizing. So yeah, it's kind of related a bit to the last Oregon times when we meet this infrastructure, people are actually somewhat destroying some of it as well.
[00:11:18] Um, and I think, uh, someone I heard somewhere made a good kind of point to, to, to, uh, wow. I don't necessarily know if you, I think everyone knows that sometimes when you try to justify someone. Just justify a reason to someone with a restaurant opinion. It's difficult. But, um, you know, that five G was allowing people to, uh, visit in quote marks their sick relatives in hospitals and things like that.
[00:11:46] And if you're destroying this and it won't be possible, um, and I hope that that human factor means step time people see that this is kind of a, an unhelpful endeavor and not even necessarily. With any need. But anyway, um, some of my friends and people I know have had far harsher things to say, but I try to remain pragmatic about these things.
[00:12:07] Um, but yeah, crazy times. Crazy times. Okay. Now it's time for something completely different. This is an article from a content magazine. From Susan Dagostino, uh, about Donald couldn't have quite sure how to pronounce his name. No, Chris was the creator of tech texts. T. E. X. I'm also part of LAR tech LA latex or heavy water pronounces kind of, um, formatting language, uh, for.
[00:12:39] For academic papers predominantly, but I actually have used it as well for other things. I quite like it. It's almost like CSS for print, if you'd like to give it like that and misses quite a nice article about this aging, a computer programmer who loves to tell stories and he cannot stop writing books and he's been working on this Magnum Opus of his, I hang on, I find the title, the art of computer programming.
[00:13:03] He's been working in it forever. Like. I think it might be one of these things that he never actually finishes. And there's several volumes of it and some have sought to be released and some are still in progress. And, and it's kind of this, um, uh, book about programming from a creative perspective, which really appeals to me actually, this aspect of, uh, thinking of, uh, of programming in different ways than just as kind of very engineer focused, practical way.
[00:13:28] Um, and it sounds quite a wonderful thing. Um, and I guess this. It comes from a person who created something that you could do, nice layout that you never expected anybody to use. So it kind of makes sense. And his mind has these correlations of ideas. Maybe. And he's also a big believer in telling the stories, which is something I tried to do with my work.
[00:13:49] It's sometimes difficult. Um, you don't always have the time. You don't always have the inclination from your side or from a client side, from a team side as well. But it's something that. Trying to figure out how to do, I've had numerous to do's in ideas on my list for some time about this kind of, uh, explaining programming through poetry or other creative pursuits.
[00:14:08] And is there even an appetite for that is the interesting point. It's one of these sorts of things that people like myself can, um, compass. So the virtues, all of that is anyone interested is the, is the harder question and are you doing it for yourself or you're doing it for someone else's is a hard question to answer sometimes.
[00:14:24] Anyway, this is a very nice article. I enjoyed reading it, and I'm definitely going to do some more digging into some of his work. Um, and remember him every time I use a LaTech, I suppose as well as opposed to here from a one zero from 'em. Michael McWatters am, this is actually, it was one of these articles I tend to do not, I mentioned very much, but I found it quite useful to me as a list of design apps for the Mac that the writer tried and cause of feedback on.
[00:14:52] And there were some, um, some ones here that you're probably familiar with, some that are not necessarily really about design, but just useful for a designer, I suppose. But there's actually a few in here that I was not familiar with and I am quite looking forward to digging into a bit more. And also they mentioned some that I already like to use as well, like a mind node, for example.
[00:15:12] So if you're looking for some new inspiration on some applications, do use a new Mac to help your work process with designer or not, or professional or a aspiring designer. Then have a look and hopefully you'll find something useful there. Let me know if you do. Okay. Definitely coming out. Of the technology bubble now, and this was a post that popped up into my feet that is not really particularly related to anything I know want to talk about, but I found it such an interesting rate.
[00:15:37] This is from a rolling stone from Jordan  and it's an article called, and this again is a fairly self explanatory title. 30 fascinating early bands of musical legends. And yeah, that's basically 30 stories of, uh, famous musicians now, some not so familiar with and others and what they did before, uh, including some of my highlights.
[00:16:00] Michael Bolton's death metal phase, um, also tells a story as I've led Zepplin actually, I knew that led Zepplin were pretty well known session musicians long before they actually played in led Zeppelin. Um. It talks about regional Dwight. Okay. John and his early acts, he actually, um, I think that was mentioned in there, the recent rocket man film in, in sort of dramatic as way.
[00:16:22] Uh, and actually it's interesting to see how many artists kind of had bands before they were famous that taught them the ropes. Um. Bands where they weren't necessarily doing anything particularly original, but they were good and they were solid, and they toured with lots of, uh, well known acts, and then kind of learn the tricks of the trade to then do their own career.
[00:16:40] That's used to be something that popped up quite a lot. But yeah, there's some really fascinating stories here, and I loved reading this on the weekend morning, I think whilst having coffee in bed on Saturday or Sunday. So hopefully you'll do the same. And I'd love to hear your favorite story too. And finally, an article from Harrigan is in the New York times, how to edit your own writing.
[00:16:59] Um. Most of these tips I, uh, sort of was sort of ones I followed already. But, um, there's a nice, concise, which is very appropriate for article and editing Roundup of how to edit your own work, how to criticize yourself, the most obvious places to begin. To do that, which is often the hardest thing to do when you're not used to it.
[00:17:21] These self criticizing and self cutting. So have a look. I think you'll find it helpful that with my links for the week and now he is my interview with Troy Murray of 
[00:17:33] **Troy Murray**: [00:17:33] Troy Murray. I am, I run strategy at a breaker and I also do, um. I'm the supervisor of the singles Dow foundation, and I'm the code technical architect of the single 
[00:17:46] style.
[00:17:48] **Chris Ward**: [00:17:48] Okay. And so what is breaker? I mean, I previously spoke with a singular DTV, um, a few years back, which was a sort of, um, film, movie assets and blockchain kind of provenance platform. If I got that very, very brief summary correct. 
[00:18:14] **Troy Murray**: [00:18:14] Um, okay. So, well, similar DTV is still around. It's kind of the mothership of the whole ecosystem breaker is a, um, well, it's got its fingers in a bunch of stuff, but one of the, one of the main ones in, in respect to the singles dowel is that it's a, um, high level content portal for, um, films a lot, mainly indie films on the protocol.
[00:18:42] Uh, and it also works as a facilitator for, um, the traditional finance system, um, linking into the blockchain ecosystem. 
[00:18:55] **Chris Ward**: [00:18:55] So maybe for people who don't know, let's explain what a Dow is and then what singles Dow is specifically on top of that. 
[00:19:04] **Troy Murray**: [00:19:04] Yeah. So a Dao is a decentralized autonomous organization. Um, there's a lot of different ways to look at what specifically a doubt is.
[00:19:12] It's kind of a nebulous, um, idea. So our Dow, um, specifically revolves around allowing the community to govern the district, the media distribution protocol, which is a torrent network of peer to peer. Torrent for any type of media. Anytime you have digital media, you can think 
[00:19:37] **Chris Ward**: [00:19:37] of, and actually this is interesting, I have often wondered with blockchain projects, or shall we say, decentralized something rather projects.
[00:19:49] Um, I, you know, there was always this protocol that existed for some time and still exists. That was. Wasn't his relatively successful Torrance, and I always wondered why people almost seem to forget that they existed. Uh, I actually came across a blog post. I don't know if it was anything to do with you guys.
[00:20:08] Um, someone talking about this, about monetizing, uh, Torrance in some way, shape, or form. I don't know if they were connected with you cause it sounds somewhat similar, but it's actually quite an interesting idea. You know, leveraging something that is decentralized has existed for some time. Uh, there's a lot of tooling around it and adding just that little bit on top to kind of add the benefits of blockchain without necessarily having all the issues of, uh, the blockchain currently has.
[00:20:37] Is that maybe a relatively good, good sort of summary of what you were trying to do with those technologies? 
[00:20:43] **Troy Murray**: [00:20:43] Yeah. Um, I mean, if you look at the, if you look at the protocol of BitTorrent, I mean, it is probably, I think it's the first successful decentralized protocol ever. And then the next one would actually be probably Bitcoin.
[00:20:58] So it's interesting that people didn't, uh, originally and kind of tried to marry the two, um, at the gecko. I think it's a little bit harder with Bitcoin because you can't actually do. Hashes to the addresses, to the Bitcoin addresses, where, because of the smart contracts, because system of if the Ram, you can.
[00:21:19] You can hash torrents two wallets, which is what we do. And so by doing that, you allow for a torn to be connected to an artist or a production company, or, I mean, we don't do this, but you could do it, uh, an investor right in, into, uh, into a specific type of media. Um, and so by, by leveraging the most, how the most successful decentralized network ever.
[00:21:47] Um, we are able to do what we do and we're probably going to be able to open it up to other forms of digital. Not, not just media, but other types of, anything you can use a torrent for. Right. So right now we're kind of focused on. Um, video and, uh, music. But, you know, I can envision a future in which, right now we're working with a, uh, uh, an, I don't want to give out the name of the artist cause I don't think it's public yet, but they're, they're working on creating a digital VR world for their music.
[00:22:22] And I would love to be able to distribute that, uh, VR world through the torrent, uh, distribution network. Um, so doing things like that, uh, are on the roadmap. Um, but yeah, I mean, if you actually look back at the history of, uh, Torrance, one of the first, like, one of the more successful, uh, UIs, it was built on top of the bit torrent network was this thing called popcorn time.
[00:22:49] And back in 2014, I actually reached out to the phage. Are you familiar? 
[00:22:52] **Chris Ward**: [00:22:52] Actually, I didn't realize that's what it was, but yeah, yeah. 
[00:22:55] **Troy Murray**: [00:22:55] Yeah, so popcorn time, they, they kind of threw it. It was like the Napster of movies, right? It was, it was very easy. A UI you could download and it worked just like Netflix, and you could watch movies by streaming them through Torrance, which was the big breakthrough that they had, where you could take a torrent and stream it onto a device.
[00:23:17] And so I actually reached out to the team back in 2014 and I asked them if they wanted to connect, uh, did coin wallets into their, into their, uh, um, into their UI. And they got back to me very quickly and they said, if we were to do that, we would be sued to all kingdom come. And, um, it's interesting because if you look at what we have now, um, the first prototypes of what we actually built were based.
[00:23:45] On popcorn time and we just, what we did was we just kind of flipped it and made it so that, uh, artists could use it then, and they were connected to a theory of Wallace. But if you look at the progression, um, we've been moving towards this space this way, um, before even a theory, IOM or all this stuff, it's just, it just to me feels like the whole.
[00:24:06] Kind of digital world is kind of moving in that way and making these decentralized protocols, and so, um, yeah, it's exciting. Personally, I find it extremely exciting. 
[00:24:15] **Chris Ward**: [00:24:15] Who are they afraid of being sued by studios? 
[00:24:18] **Troy Murray**: [00:24:18] Yeah. Yeah. At the, uh, the MPA would have probably come down on them pretty hard, even though it was a distributed, was an open source UI built on top of the protocol.
[00:24:30] They, they were in, um, contact with people in Hollywood and people that they were, they were told they needed to shut down immediately, but the, the source code was all put out there. And then if w if we have figured out a way, if they, if they had decided to monetize it in any way, then they would have gotten into a lot of trouble.
[00:24:49] Right. There's no way to, yeah. Yeah. But there's no way to, if something were to go in there and do it, there's no way to really stop it because it's all open source. So. I dunno, I'm still waiting for someone to actually do it and just drop it and just, and disappear. But, um, understandably, I mean, if you were to ever, if people would ever find out who you were, it'd be bad.
[00:25:12] **Chris Ward**: [00:25:12] So with, with the breaker, it's artists upload and then the, the payment is direct to them, I guess. Is that how you're getting around that or. 
[00:25:26] **Troy Murray**: [00:25:26] Yeah. Well, um, I mean, with ours, it's voluntary, right? We're allowing the artist to come in and share their content. We're, we're making a legal version of it. So, um, it's trying to leverage all that and make it legal essentially.
[00:25:42] And not, not doing it in the shadows of the internet. 
[00:25:46] **Chris Ward**: [00:25:46] Okay. But I mean, I see, uh, on the website, I see. Snapshots of what I think are independent artists, but I also see, um, well I'm seeing some, some screens, some posters here of like older classic films as well. So are you mixing together some of the kind of oldest sources or are they out of copyright or like how are you getting round that ability for people to, to tolerant like we used to, but legally.
[00:26:20] **Troy Murray**: [00:26:20] Yeah, so some of those older ones, they're actually, um. They're out of copyright. Okay. Exactly. And we can just upload them and we don't, we don't technically sell them. We just add them to the network. So if you go on there, you can download them for free. We seed it to the network. Um, it's just a way to like give more content.
[00:26:42] To the ecosystem, 
[00:26:44] **Chris Ward**: [00:26:44] essentially. And if an independent artist X seeds, but says, I want, um, I don't know. No point, no one F per play, then that's up to them. That's their, 
[00:26:56] **Troy Murray**: [00:26:56] yeah, exactly. Yeah. So they set the parameters on the cost of the transaction for what they want to get, and then we take a, a small cut of that, and then the protocol.
[00:27:08] A Dow, actually, we'll take a small, a very small cut according to what the parameters of the dour set for. 
[00:27:15] **Chris Ward**: [00:27:15] And is that used for something in particular that, that cut? 
[00:27:19] **Troy Murray**: [00:27:19] Yeah. So that cut actually goes specific, goes into the Dow treasury, which the treasury is controlled by the participants of the Dow, which is the community who, uh, run the down.
[00:27:30] Um, and then those. That though, um, that can then be used for, uh, upgrades to the protocol. Um, it can be used for if the Dow wants to finance a project that will be distributed. Uh, so there's a lot of different things, but the. It's mainly just so that you can do upgrades for the protocol. The idea is that the protocol is, um, a self self adaptive so that there is no need for outside funding.
[00:27:58] It can self fund itself. So like if you think about a HTML, right, there's a group of people that. Put money into this organization and it's all nonprofit and there's no way for them to finance themselves. So then they are dependent upon that. But I mean, we've gotten all the way to HTML five. The idea is that this is a, uh, self-sustaining protocol.
[00:28:20] So there is an internal and a monetary engine that it, that it will survive no matter even if you, even if there's no one in control. No one giving it money. 
[00:28:32] **Chris Ward**: [00:28:32] Okay. Now, one of the bigger issues at the moment with the distributed applications, decentralized applications has been user experience. I mean, a lot of it, especially from the wallet perspective, is still a little fiddly.
[00:28:46] Um, you have on the website, you have some great screenshots of mobile applications and things like that, making it kind of look like. Some familiar platforms, do we say, um, how far along that path are you to just sort of making an experience that the majority of people could, could use? 
[00:29:07] **Troy Murray**: [00:29:07] Yeah, I think, um, so the user experience, um, in, when it comes to actually being a portal UI on top of the protocol, uh, ours is, I think, extremely good.
[00:29:20] Um, and mainly because we, we, we tap into the traditional finance world, so people don't have to have wallets connected to it. They can just download it, put in their credit card, and then, uh, we do the, we do the transaction. So if you pay with a credit card, then we put it into crypto and then we filter it.
[00:29:39] Um, there's a lot of overhead on that, and that's why the, the breaker UI actually takes a larger cut than, um. Uh, if are strictly a native crypto UI, but if you look at, Mmm, strictly native crypto. Portals. Um, I think that there's been a lot of progress in a UI, so managing your keys. I think there's way, I think there's been a lot of progress in that, which is the big one.
[00:30:08] Um, yeah, I think like a system like Fort Maddick has done a really, really good job at being able to, uh, manage that for people who might not be crypto heads. Um. So I, I personally believe that that's really kind of going and the in a positive direction. Um, I don't think we've seen the killer app for it yet, but I think that there's been amazing developments in, um, the progress 
[00:30:37] **Chris Ward**: [00:30:37] for sure.
[00:30:39] And is the, the, the protocol on the app live, are people using it right now on both sides? 
[00:30:45] **Troy Murray**: [00:30:45] Yeah. So the protocol is technically live. The Dow is not live. So if the da, actually I'm about to, uh, we're about to launch the test nut for the doubt today. But, um, so we're looking at hopefully late may release of the Dao, which is the Dow app.
[00:31:04] Um, but the, the protocol does exist. It works. The hashing mechanism is all there. Uh, we are working on open sourcing it, uh, which requires a lot of. Um, documentation on our end. So we're working through all the documentation of how all the backend works, but the app  the portal, um, is live right? You can download the breaker app right now.
[00:31:25] Um, you can also download the app in the Google play store and the, uh, apples Apple. Library, whatever it's called, their app store. 
[00:31:35] **Chris Ward**: [00:31:35] So I was mostly interested in, cause I was interested to know when you mentioned that you kind of have the option of crypto and then traditional finance for any of the, uh, interactions where people have paid in quote marks.
[00:31:52] Has it been a majority crypto or is it being the majority traditional payment methods. 
[00:31:59] **Troy Murray**: [00:31:59] Um, I, I don't know the exact numbers, but I believe it's been more in the traditional monetary, it hasn't been in crypto. Um, and I think the reason for that is that we haven't, um, we haven't advertised the portals to crypto heads.
[00:32:14] We advertise more to the independent film world and what they know is. Uh, hang on credit card. But, uh, as we open up the protocol and we open up and we open source the UI so that anyone can build a portal, I think we're going to have more crypto heads moving into it because they'll be able to use it in any way they want.
[00:32:34] Um, which is what most crypto people are kind of into where they get to. Play around with an open source UI and create new environments for consumers. 
[00:32:46] **Chris Ward**: [00:32:46] And in theory, I guess you could start to do things like micropayments on videos via Mehta Maska and things like that. Maybe, um, I know companies have tried this in the past and it hasn't been 100% successful with micropayments, but I mean, sometimes some people are too early and then they set the way for people to come along later.
[00:33:12] Um, 
[00:33:14] **Troy Murray**: [00:33:14] I think, uh, I think a lot of the original micropayments systems were never built on crypto. And then 
[00:33:20] **Chris Ward**: [00:33:20] over one out of here, the Satoshi pay, which I. 100% sure if they're actually still going on, but I haven't heard much from them for a while. But yeah, 
[00:33:30] **Troy Murray**: [00:33:30] I think another problem with the micropayments systems are the scaling issues.
[00:33:35] So if you were to really get a successful micropayment system going, the the, the . The payments themselves would end up getting increased because we just don't have scaling docs. 
[00:33:48] **Chris Ward**: [00:33:48] Yeah, 
[00:33:49] **Troy Murray**: [00:33:49] yeah, yeah. But you could, you could. I have looked into this and I thought about you could build one on a ZK snark, which would allow for a really high throughput, but I, we haven't dug that deep into it yet.
[00:34:03] **Chris Ward**: [00:34:03] Now for the kind of majority audience, I mean, one of the, you already sort of alluded to it earlier, that sometimes the problem with starting new media platforms is you kind of have to have this balancing act of a very, um, worthy, independent content. And content that people actually know and want to consume, whether you kind of like that or not.
[00:34:25] Um, and this has often been the downfall of some of these, uh, alternatives. Some of the mainstream options. Uh, I can see you've got, for example, um, a profile of Trojan records, which actually I think I might watch this excuse to actually try the platform. I'm a big fan of a regular ed scar, so I actually have a look at that.
[00:34:45] Um. I bet. Are there any other artists who are, who are using a breaker exclusively or as part of some other offering that are bringing people to the platform? Are you consumers to the platform? 
[00:35:00] **Troy Murray**: [00:35:00] Yeah, I think the biggest artists we had doing stuff like that was dramatic. Who's EDM artists? Um, but yeah, I mean, we're, we're actively.
[00:35:12] Mmm. Searching for artists to use the platform. I think when we released the open source UI, the idea will be to kind of really go after more tech savvy artists who can create their, we call it like a TV studio in a box. So you'll be able to create your own, uh, the spoke personal user interface for your fans.
[00:35:32] So how you use that in the long run is, will be up to the artists. Um, but. Yeah, that's, I think that will be the, I think that will be the linchpin. But that's, that's just my, my guess. 
[00:35:43] **Chris Ward**: [00:35:43] And from memory, I think that's what, uh, Zach mentioned when I spoken, spoke to him about singular DTV. I think there was a similar sort of idea, the, the giving people not only the tools to distribute, but also the tools to create in the first place.
[00:36:00] **Troy Murray**: [00:36:00] Yeah. I mean, that's definitely, that's definitely the goal is providing as many tools. That's for them to distribute and create. 
[00:36:09] **Chris Ward**: [00:36:09] Okay. Now you've spoken about lots of things you want to do, but kind of for the next six months, what's actually sort of concretely on the roadmap of your top top priorities.
[00:36:21] **Troy Murray**: [00:36:21] Yeah. So my top priorities are getting out the Dow by the end of may, which will include also releasing a new token to all singles holders. So if you hold singles, you'll get a one to one token of the governance token, which will then govern the Dow. Um, and that's the first part. And then the second part would, will be, uh, the open sourcing of the entire protocols.
[00:36:45] So allowing for. A true decentralization of the backend, which, uh, doesn't actually, it w we have like a hybrid version right now and we need to decentralize, um, where specifically metadata of the Torrens, where are those held? I think what will we could be using as IPFS or, uh, some other, uh, theoria might have sworn by then.
[00:37:10] So there's, uh, the roadwork or the roadmap for that. And then the other part is. Creating this mechanism called content mining, but that's more of a two year plan than a six months. 
[00:37:23] **Chris Ward**: [00:37:23] Yeah. And actually just, uh, I was just clicking around on the artist page whilst you were mentioning some of the aspects there, and there is, you do have, um, um, disability for artists to see, see their data.
[00:37:38] Um, what does that mean for an artist or what will it mean for artists? What, what all would they be able to see. 
[00:37:45] **Troy Murray**: [00:37:45] So if you actually go to, um, singles. Singles, Dow. Dot. IO. Uh, we have a channel on breaker where we upload all of our, uh, calls and talks. And if you scroll down through the page, there's a section that says project calls statistics.
[00:38:03] And on there it says, the following data is provided by breaker pro. And so breaker pro, which is what, where the ADIs. Artists get to see their data, it allows them to see, um, the download summaries of all their content they have on the system downloads per IP location. So you can see where all your fans are.
[00:38:19] Um, and then you can see your ratings. And then you can also see daily downloads and all your reviews. So you get to have a dashboard of, um. How your, how your fans are seeing your content in real time.  
[00:38:35] **Chris Ward**: [00:38:35] okay. Okay. Well, just tell me the, the, the, the spelling of the Dow thing again. I'm just having a go is also correcting it to singles day all the time.
[00:38:47] Oh, 
[00:38:48] **Troy Murray**: [00:38:48] um, yeah. It's S N. G. L. 
[00:38:51] **Chris Ward**: [00:38:51] ah, yes. No vowels. Okay. 
[00:38:56] **Troy Murray**: [00:38:56] Do you it's men. It's D. a O. Diarrhea. 
[00:38:59] **Chris Ward**: [00:38:59] All right. There we go. And what do you, I mean, I mean, you're obviously very sort of strongly parted in media right now, but where, what other places do you think this may be useful and applicable to. 
[00:39:12] **Troy Murray**: [00:39:12] Yeah. Um, I think you could see video games.
[00:39:17] Um, I also think you could see fashion houses use it. Um, that's, that's a little bit down the road. Um, and then, um, I mean, music, video games, uh, digital art, I think like, uh, like, um, stuff like that. 
[00:39:37] **Chris Ward**: [00:39:37] Yeah. Okay. Yeah, there's definitely been a few. There's been a few attempts in the past, especially for the digital artwork, um, on, on the quote unquote blockchain.
[00:39:47] Um, I, I do wonder like, why they weren't successful and why new adventures into it might be. Um, do you think it might be, again, be a case of they were just like some of these, for example, um, Oh God, let me try to forget the name now. Um. Describe, um, a couple of years back. Maybe it was just too soon. Um, and now it's starting to make more sense to people and the tooling and the networks are more in place, uh, you hope, I guess at least.
[00:40:22] **Troy Murray**: [00:40:22] Yeah. I, I definitely think a lot of them were too soon. I think most of those kind of fall in that category because. We didn't, we don't have the, we didn't have the tools yet really built for the infrastructure. Where I think if you look, uh, one of my favorite projects right now is, um, st fame Dow, and it's an, it's a, uh, the clothing house releases.
[00:40:49] It's like an online fashion house. And, uh, it's controlled by a Dao and I, and they're having great success and what they're doing. And I think that they started off with a really small idea, but they needed to have. A lot of the infrastructure built for them, where they needed someone to create the Dao, the Dao smart contract, and now they view, they're using that.
[00:41:08] So you're, you're seeing, um, a lot of the community like rally around ideas like that. And I think we're probably on the precipice of an explosion of these ideas. Um, once we start to see. That they're actually viable. 
[00:41:22] **Chris Ward**: [00:41:22] Was that actually tying things to a physical product as well? Yes. Okay. Yeah. That's interesting.
[00:41:28] **Troy Murray**: [00:41:28] Yeah, it's fascinating. It's fascinating to watch. 
[00:41:30] **Chris Ward**: [00:41:30] Okay. Or the last question I always like to ask is, um, it's a very vague question. I know. Um, is there anything we haven't covered that you want to make sure people know, understand about, about breaker. 
[00:41:46] **Troy Murray**: [00:41:46] Um, I think it would be probably more around singles, Dow.
[00:41:49] Uh, and so the people understand that this Dow is going to be the governance layer that controls the parameters of the protocol. And we haven't seen that yet. And so if anyone's interested in being able to control. Uh, globally parameters of a, of a media distribution protocol that anyone can use. Um, I would highly recommend you look into our white paper and check out our medium articles.
[00:42:18] **Chris Ward**: [00:42:18] That was my interview with Troy Murray of, I hope you enjoyed that. Now I do have some things update you on lots of things still in progress. I have lots of articles in progress. You appear to seafood and those are things in progress. Sometimes doing a weekly show, not much changes during the week, but I've got a few little things update you on.
[00:42:35] Bear with me whilst I flipped backwards and forwards between a few things to tell you about. Some of them. So first and foremost, I took part as a guest in a roleplay livestream, which was fun. This is critic test dummies. You can find it on Twitch. The episode from last Wednesday. So Wednesday the 15th featured me.
[00:42:53] I had a good time. We went for nearly four hours. It was quite exhausting at certain points, but it was good fun. Um, I am, uh, related to that and I am starting my solo, uh, gaming live stream this weekend. I'm not a hundred percent sure of the date yet, but I'm keeping an eye out on my Twitch channel.
[00:43:11] Christian shutter as always. There's nothing there right now, so it would be very obvious, but it is life. Um, and following up from that, what else happened last week? I've been attending a lots and lots of remote conferences. I'm going to write up some of them soon. I haven't always been able to attend as much of the tools as I'd like.
[00:43:31] Is that often starting on Eastern time in the U S so sometimes you don't always get the chance. I was particularly impressed with the react conference and just seeing how you could potentially start to charge for. Um, online conferences. And I wrote a piece on this very early in the crisis for design about, uh, the kind of, um, model for events that may end up happening.
[00:43:54] And it's nice to see some people start to try these ideas. Actually, I was ahead of my time and this conference in particular tried that, like having a three core offering, but then offering things additional, uh, options you could upgrade to like a  with speakers and things like that, which I found quite an interesting idea.
[00:44:11] I will see how successful it was for them. I also recorded some more stories for the new storytelling podcast. We have edited the first one, the second one. I hope to be editing this weekend. Um, so there's progress on that too. I will start publishing some new blog posts, a story to in blog posts that will be recorded for that later, probably a over the weekend.
[00:44:34] Maybe I need to figure out where I'm going to publish them actually is the more grueling right now. Um, I also started my first office hours for people who want help with documentation. Um, and you can actually, I'm not, I think the best place to find the link right now is on my Twitter profile. It's, uh, pinned as opinions tweaked at the top of my Twitter stream to find the link to register for sessions.
[00:44:58] I'm running them on Wednesday and Friday. Um, from sort of European offering times, especially the morning Eastern time in the U S and I'm not promoting it massively heavily yet cause I'm still feeling a lots of things out. But, uh, they will hopefully be coming live soon. And other Oscars I have in progress.
[00:45:16] Uh, I attended a briefing with canonical and Ubuntu on Monday, so there'll be something on the latest versions of urban to very soon. Um, I have, um, some bigger articles with some new clients in progress. I have some design posts on Grafana in progress, and also a write up of a cybersecurity in a pandemic, somewhat related to the critical start interview from a few weeks ago.
[00:45:39] So lots of things in progress, just waiting for them to be published and to share them with you. You could also see they were published some time ago, but I didn't actually know. But you can find the links on my website and Christian  dot com some blog posts I've been doing for get lab as well. And it's brought those in progress.
[00:45:54] And I have lots of more in perverse, so much in progress. Just trying to actually get things sometimes out or remembering to tell you about them, I suppose is sometimes the biggest thing. I'm doing some work on my website as well. Tidying up a few things, removing a few ideas that haven't really, um. I haven't really realized adding a few new things, like trying to add some of the places I've been appearing on other people's shows, things like that, but also adding a better space for some of my more creative work, which is , which is actually, you know, nearly done.
[00:46:24] And I'm suddenly realizing I have no way to really share it with people. So that's in progress too. So for now, until next time, um, please rate, review, share. If you enjoyed the show, please look@kristinchiller.com for more details of all the things I've mentioned and if you have been, thank you so much for listening and take care.
[00:46:44] Stay safe. .