---
layout: "../../../layouts/Post.astro"
title: Human Powered Cycles - Cycling article
date: 1230592042
---
As a cyclist you encounter so much stress, grief and abuse you at least hope that when you enter a bike shop you will be greeted by a friendly and supportive face. However even this isn't always the case as some cycle shop staff can be rude, patronising and unfriendly, especially to new and keen cyclists. So what a refreshing change it was when I set foot into Human Powered Cycles in Brunswick, not only friendly and approachable, but also passionate and with a big heart, lets have a few words with them.<br><br><b>Top Maintenance Tips</b><br>Keep your bike regularly maintained, oil the chain and wheels, keep all moving parts clean and basically just keep an eye on everything.<br>Make sure your light's batteries are not running out, especially on your back light as you may not always notice it's strength. On a related issue, don't buy two back lights to save money, this will confuse other traffic and could endanger you.<br>When adjusting gears don't rely on playing with the High and Low adjusters on the gear cluster, try adjusting the gear wire instead.<br><br>If you want to learn more about cycle maintenance then conveniently Human Powered offer some very competitively priced classes and rates for their own work, even providing courtesy bikes whilst yours is being fixed.<br><br><b>Top Riding Tips</b><br>Get a bike that fits you properly!<br>Don't hug the kerb and keep weaving in and out between packed cars, stay out in the road and stick to the same spot.<br>Don't ride timidly, assert yourself and be confident.<br>Obey the rules of the road, if you don't know them, learn them.<br><br>Human Powered's business has been sufficiently successful over the past seven years that they have been able to fund a program for recent Immigrants, providing bikes and cycling lessons, a quite unique scheme that you can help with by donating any old bikes you no longer require.<br><br>I asked the guys what they thought of some of the current issues that affect cyclists in Melbourne.<br><br><b>Why do you think that so many motorists in Melbourne are so 'bad' and have so little respect for Cyclists? </b><br>I feel that unlike many European cities motorists in Australia have priority, if they hit a non-motor vehicle then the victim is in the wrong. Perhaps this leads the attitude of motorists here, they feel they are always in the right. Generally most motorists get annoyed with pedestrians and cyclists because they slow them down. At the same time I dislike certain cyclists who abuse the rules of the road, annoying other users doesn't help, it will simply lead to more motorists disliking cyclists and treating us all with disdain and mistrust.<br><br><b>Do you think that if Cyclists paid a road tax we would be treated with more respect and get better facilities? </b><br>This is actually somewhat of a myth, the tax that motorists pay mainly goes into accident prevention / cure and then general administration costs of the tax. Cyclists have very little impact on council property and we pay for this with rates anyway. In fact, encouraging cyclists is in the interests of councils it leads to less wear and tear and increased health benefits.<br><br><b>What would help the future of cycling? </b><br>More education for all road users and more promotion of cycling as a viable and positive method of transport, both of these would hopefully lead to a change in attitudes.<br><br>Human Powered is a great self sufficient operation like so many in the inner suburbs, right down to their wonderfully informative website, their workshop computers running Linux and Bees in the backyard on the banks of the Merri. They are soon moving to commercial prosperity, hopefully it wont change the nature of the business.<br><br>38 Harrison St<br>Brunswick East<br>90296504<br><br>Soon moving to :<br>563 High Street<br>Thornbury<br><br>On the 1st December, drop by for opening specials!<br><br><a href=https://www.humanpowered.com.au target=î_blankî> www.humanpowered.com.au </a><br><br>The guys at Human Powered Cycles are so nice they've also offered anyone who mentioned Aduki a 10% discount.<


Published in Aduki
